1. "Good day to you, spark. It's a long road to Tenli Village. Feel free to pull up a rock and rest a while. I've even got some coal to spare if you're hungry."
  "Some coal would be great, thank you." (Health + 3) (Go to 2)
  "Thanks, but I need to keep going." (End)
2. "There you go, spark. Enjoy."
  "Who are you?" (Go to 3)
  "What was that about a village?" (Go to 4)
  "Thanks, it was delicious. Farewell." (End)
3. "Name's Renzel. I work for the Ignis Company, under the House of Ardor. I'm headed to Tenli Village to negotiate a trade deal with the tribe's elder." (askedWho = true)
  (if !askedWho) "Who are you?" (Go to 3)
  (if !askedVillage) "Can you tell me about Tenli Village?" (Go to 4)
  (if !askedTrade) "What do you trade with the natives?" (Go to 5)
  "Does the Ignis Company do business with the other houses?" (Go to 6)
  "It was nice to meet you, but I need to keep going. Farewell." (End)
4. "Tenli Village is an interesting place. We outsiders are only allowed into the ground-level part of the village, where things are made of stone. Tenli masonry is less than impressive, but to be fair, it's merely a concession made on behalf of visitors; their real crafts are woodworking and weaving. They make some beautiful works out of wood and vines, and they don't even burn them thanks to the Verdant Ember's blessing. But alas, you and I can only look at Tenli's craft from afar." (askedVillage = true) (Return to 3)
5. "The marsh is pretty light in mineral resources, so we trade good quality stone and metal, mostly in exchange for foodstuffs. Dry wood, vine, root, that kind of stuff. Some of the noble houses will pay a pretty penny for tribal art, too, but of course, it has to be well preserved as to avoid burning." (askedTrade = true) (Return to 3)
6. "Sometimes, but we mostly trade with other provinces. Why do you ask?"
  "I was just curious." (Go to 32)
  "I was wondering because I might want to join up with your company sometime." (Go to 7)
  "I'm a noble myself, and I'd like to negotiate a deal." (Go to 8)
7. "Ah, I see. Good to meet a young spark with some volition. Our headquarters are back in Gray Coast, in the Northern Province, so you can inquire there when you have the time. We also have a pretty substantial office in Dewyn, capital of the Plains Province. Just tell ‘em old Renzel sent you; they'll get you sorted." <i>Gives Ignis Company card</i> "Heck, if you want to get an early start, I've got a package for the metal merchant in Tenli Village. I'll be stuck here for a while longer, but I'd be willing to pay you to take it to him." (IngisCard + 1)
  "Thanks for the offer, but I've got a lot on my plate already." (Go to 24)
  "That sounds like something I can do." (Go to 25)
8. "That so? What's your name?"
  "Wixellus Ire." (karma + 1) (Go to 9)
  "Ekellus Ire." (Go to 10)
  "Kadis Vim." (Go to 11)
  "Habaldt Ardor." (Go to 12)
9. "Wixellus... the exiled Ire kid? Heh, well, you're either pretty dense or too honest for your own good, telling me that. Guess now I know why you didn't fit in. Still, I don't think you're in any position to be negotiating trade deals. But with that said, there may be a way I can help you out." <i>Gives Ignis Company card</i> "Take that to our office in Dewyn, and tell 'em Renzel sent you. Your exile status would complicate working in Gray Coast, but no one will know about that out in the plains. Go on and make something of yourself, spark — you might have a bright future ahead of you yet." (IngisCard + 1) (End)
10. "Ah, well met, then, Mr. Ire. So, what's your proposition?" (End)
11. "Oh, Mr. Vim! I heard about your recent duel — whelp had it coming, I say. Can't get anywhere in the world if you don't learn some respect. So, how can I help you?" (End)
12. "Nah, I'd know if you were an Ardor boy. Try again."
"Uh, never mind." (Go to 13)
"Wixellus Ire." (Go to 14)
"Ekellus Ire." (Go to 14)
"Kadis Vim." (Go to 14)
13. "Mhm." (Return to 3)
14. "Doesn't really matter now, since I already caught you. What are you after, anyway, impersonating a noble like that?"
  "I should really be going." (End)
  "Nothing, really. I was just messing with you." (Go to 15)
  "I was hoping you would deliver something to my family." (Go to 16)
  "I wanted to prank a rival of mine."
15. "Well, that's rather petty of you, but alright. (Return to 3)
16. "If that's the case, why lie about your identity?"
  "I'm not exactly in the best standing with them right now." (Go to 18)
  "I'd rather not talk about it." (Go to 17)
17. "Fair enough, I suppose. I know what it's like having unpleasantness between loved ones." (Return to 3)
18. "Sorry to hear that, spark. Family trouble puts a damper on everything. What's your family's name? Maybe I can help."
  "You don't want to trouble yourself with it, believe me." (Go to 19)
  "We're a middle class family out in Eastcrag, name of Daze." (Go to 20)
  "It's Ire, actually." (Go to 26)
19. "Heh, perhaps you're right, but I'll still give you a piece of advice: Any old hurts you've got, try not to dwell on those. Even if you're planning on revenge, hanging onto the pain will only slow you down." (Return to 3)
20. "Daze... can't say I've heard the name, but I come from the same kind of background. 'Course, if I were a noble, you'd already know it. So, what's the trouble?"
  "My parents wanted me to stay home and inherit the family business, but I decided to leave the Northern Province to find my own lot in life instead. I don't think they've forgiven me." (Go to 21)
  "Ever since my grandfather died, there's been constant arguing and lawsuits over inheritance. It was a rash decision, but I decided to pack up and leave to get away from it all." (Go to 22)
  "I did something rather embarrassing, and my family disowned me for it. I'm trying to atone by embracing the Verdant Ember." (Go to 23)
21. "I hear that story unfold all too often. Every flame wants their legacy to live on through their kids, of course, but we sometimes go too far, especially up north. I would suggest going back home to talk it out. If your parents' hearts are in the right place, you can at least discuss what you're going to do with your future. If not, there's nothing stopping you from leaving again. Here, take this." <i>Gives Ignis Company Card</i> "We've got offices in Gray Coast and Dewyn where you might find a job. You don't have to actually pursue it, of course, but it's a prospect for you if things don't pan out back home." (IngisCard + 1) (End)
22. "It's crazy what money can do to relationships, and I should know. Here's my point of advice: If you know there's someone who needs your support in the midst of that mess, you need to go back right away. Otherwise, you probably did the right thing by walking away from that situation; those kinds of feuds can ruin your relationships, your finances, and your sanity. Hm... here, you should have this." <i>Gives Ignis Company Card</i> "If you need work and ever find yourself out near Dewyn or Gray Coast, we're hiring. It's good money, and you'll get to see the world. Maybe take your mind off things." (IngisCard + 1) (End)
23. "Must've been something pretty serious, but I won't pry into specifics. Interesting choice to come after the Ember, though. I suppose you'll be heading deeper into the marsh." <i>Pauses for a moment</i> "I really shouldn't be giving this away, but it could save you in a pinch." <i>Gives flash powder x 4</i> "It'll give you a surge of heat. Should do some damage to the marsh creatures, too, or at least give them a scare. Good luck to ya — I'm betting you'll need it." (flashPowder + 4) (End)
24. "No worries, spark. I hope the village treats you well, and good luck on the road." (End)
25. "Excellent. Here's the package." <i>Gives Ignis package</i> "When you find Trefan — that's the metal merchant, should be in the central market — tell him I said that the pay is 50 argent, and I'll reimburse him when I get into town." (renzelJob = true) (End)
26. "Well, I'll be. Don't think there's much I could do when it comes to mending relations in the ruling family. You aren't the exiled son, are you? You look to be about his age if the reports are right. Been a lot of talk about that recently."
  "Yeah, that's me." (Go to 27)
  "No. I'm his brother." (Go to 31)
27. "That would explain what you're doing out here all alone. Just looking for a new place to settle down or what?"
  "Yeah. I just sort of picked a direction and started going." (Go to 28)
  "Actually, I'm here on a mission. I want to get stronger by embracing the Verdant Ember."
28. "This may have been an unlucky pick, then. Marshfolk are different from us. They don't quite get the northern lifestyle; for them, things like success and personal achievement aren't as important as harmony among the tribe and with nature. You might not know it from the lower village, but I've met a few of the more conservative Tenli elders who don't get down to ground level often; the life they described is a much more spiritual, natural one. They hate even the small degree of industrialization in the lower village. Maybe you'd like that lifestyle better; I'm not one to judge. But you would have to embrace the Verdant Ember to have a chance of living with them."
  "I already intend to embrace the Ember." (Go to 29)
  "Hm, maybe I should go somewhere else, then." (Go to 30)
29. "I see. You've got some hard travels ahead of you, then. I probably shouldn't be giving this away, but you need it more than I do." <i>Gives flash powder x 4</i> "Use it to gain a surge of heat. It should hurt any creatures that might attack you, or at least scare them away. Best of luck to you finding your way in life, spark. It's no small task." (flashPowder + 4) (End)
30. "Perhaps so. I would suggest the plains; it's most similar to the north. Why don't you take this?" <i>Gives Ignis Company card</i> "If you ever visit Dewyn, the capital of the Plains Province, stop by our office there and tell them I sent you. The Ignis Company is always hiring. Best of luck to you finding your way in life, spark. It's no small task." (IngisCard + 1) (End)
31. "Is that so? I had no idea two of the Ire boys were on bad terms with the family. Things must be going pretty bad for your house. What is it that's wrong between you and your family? Give me the broad strokes — I don't want to know your family's private affairs."
  "I don't burn hot enough to meet my family's standards, so they keep me busy with petty tasks to keep me out of the public view."
  "I was involved in a bit of a scandal with one of the girls from the House of Mercy. My family has held me in low regard since then for damaging the relations between our houses."
  "I've never liked being told how to act or what to do, so I was always the black sheep."
32. "Fair enough." (Return to 3)